.Dd October 17, 2013
.Dt WSCP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wscp
.Nd execute commands on multiple remote machines
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm wshc
.Op Fl -port Ar port
.Op Fl u | -username Ar username
.Op Fl p | -password
.Op Fl t | -threads Ar threads
.Op Fl l | -location Ar destination
.Fl h | -hosts | f | -file | r | -range Ar hosts
.Ar files
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
logs in to multiple hosts and executes commands on them, in parallel. It's
suitable for executing commands on large numbers of hosts and collating their
results in a format that's easy to read.
.Ss Arguments
.Bl -tag -width u
.It Fl -port Ar port
Use a different port for ssh. By default, 22 is used.
.It Fl u | -username Ar username
Use a different username for SSH. By default, the username of the current
user is used.
.It Fl p | -password
Prompt for the SSH password. If this argument is not provided, then
.Nm
will assume that you are using pubkeys or an agent.
.It Fl t | -threads Ar threads
Spawn off
.Ar threads
number of threads. If this flag is not given, then
.Nm
will execute sequentially.
.It Fl l | -location Ar destination
Destination on the remote host where
.Nm
drops its file.
.Nm
expects the remote directory to exist and will fail if it doesn't.
.El
.Ss Host selection arguments
.Bl -tag -width u
.It Fl h | -hosts Ar hosts
A comma separated list of hosts to ssh into.
.It Fl f | -file Ar filename
A file to read a newline delimited set of hosts from. If
.Ar filename
is executable,
.Nm
will execute the file and use the output as the list of hosts.
.It Fl r | -range Ar range_query
If
.Nm
is built with range support,
.Ar range_query
will be resolved with range
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr wshc 1
.Xr wshd 1
.Xr wsh-add-hostkeys 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An William Orr Aq Mt will@worrbase.com
.Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.Pp
.Nm
prompts for your passwords and stores them in memory. A page of memory is
.Xr mlock 2
and the password is kept in memory. With some knowledge of the
source and some time, it is possible to fetch the password from memory.
.Pp
As soon as
.Nm
is done with the password, it is scrubbed from memory with
.Xr memset_s 3
.Pp
The input buffer is directed to the
.Xr mlock 2
page of memory with
.Xr setvbuf 3
and also scrubbed with
.Xr memset_s 3
after use.
