.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt WSH-ADD-HOSTKEYS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wsh-add-hostkeys
.Nd add hostkeys of multiple machines to known_hosts
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm wsh-add-hostkeys
.Op Fl p | -port Ar port
.Op Fl u | -username Ar username
.Op Fl P | -password
.Op Fl t | -threads Ar threads
.Op Fl F | -force
.Op Fl f | -file Ar filename
.Op Fl r | -range
.Ar hostnames
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
logs into multiple hosts and adds their hostkeys to your known_hosts files.
.Bl -tag -width u
.It Fl p | -port Ar port
Use a different port for ssh. By default, 22 is used.
.It Fl u | -username Ar username
Use a different username for SSH. By default, the username of the current
user is used.
.It Fl p | -password
Prompt for the SSH password. If this argument is not provided, then
.Nm
will assume that you are using pubkeys or an agent.
.It Fl t | -threads Ar threads
Spawn off
.Ar threads
number of threads. If this flag is not given, then
.Nm
will execute sequentially.
.It Fl F | -force
Add hostkeys even if they have changed.
.It Fl f | -file Ar filename
Read hosts from
.Ar filename .
If
.Ar filename
is executable, execute
.Ar filename
and use the output as the list of hosts.
.It Fl r | -range
If
.Nm
is built with range support, the argument to
.Ar hostnames
will be resolved by libcrange.
.It Ar hostnames
A comma separated list of hostnames to SSH into.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr wshc 1
.Xr wshd 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An William Orr Aq Mt will@worrbase.com
.Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.Pp
This will add hostkeys of all of the remote servers specified. Make sure your
network and your hosts are in a known, good state prior to running
.Nm
.Pp
.Nm
prompts for your passwords and stores them in memory. A page of memory is
.Xr mlock 2
and the password is kept in memory. With some knowledge of the
source and some time, it is possible to fetch the password from memory.
.Pp
As soon as
.Nm
is done with the password, it is scrubbed from memory with
.Xr memset_s 3
.Pp
The input buffer is directed to the
.Xr mlock 2
page of memory with
.Xr setvbuf 3
and also scrubbed with
.Xr memset_s 3
after use.
